
# Wikipedia.org technical Documentation
**TOC**

- [Overview](../README.md)
- Architecture of www.wikipedia.org
	- [Data sources](data.md)
	- **l10n**
	- [HTML](html.md)
	- [CSS](css.md)
	- [Images](images.md)
	- [JS](javascript.md)
- Development Process
	- [Getting Started](../development/getting_started.md)
	- [Gulp Tasks](../development/gulp.md)
	- [Production Builds](../development/prod.md)
	- [Deployment](../development/deploy.md)
	- [Sister Project Portals](../development/sister_portals.md)

---
## l10n
Localization strings for wikipedia.org are provided by translatewiki. Translations from translatewiki are submitted and automatically merged into the repository by a bot (l10n-bot). The translation strings are formatted in JSON and placed in the `l10n` directory, with one file per language.

> **DO NOT EDIT THE L10N FOLDER MANUALLY, CHANGES WILL BE OVERRIDDEN BY THE L10N-BOT.**

## JavaScript translations
The translation mechanism on www.wikipedia.org is handled by JavaScript in the browser. By default, the page is server-rendered in english, and when a different browser language is detected, the page is then translated by calling an AJAX request for the appropriate translation, and the new translation strings are replaced in the DOM. The translation is then stored in localStorage for subsequent requests.

The JavaScript-based translation mechanism is a short-coming of the current architecture (server-rendering localized pages would be ideal) but late l10n is better than no l10n. The l10n strings with all the necessary info (l10n+stats for a given language wiki) are outputted into the dev directory as JSON files by the `/dev/wikipedia.org/controller.js` file. The JSON translation files are then available to be fetched by the browser. The l10n files are suffixed with a cache-busting hash to ensure the browser fetches the latest version. For production builds, these files are copied to the `prod` directory.

**l10n directory structure**

```
l10n/
    |- en.json <- source translation files
    |- fr.json
    |- etc...
dev/
    |- wikipedia.org/
        |- assets/
            |- l10n/
                |- en-03ecca8f.json <- compiled l10n files
                |- fr-03ecca8f.json
                |- etc...
        |- controller.js <- generates compiled l10n files
```

## Editing translations
Translations are edited through translatewiki.net. To edit a translation, [visit this page](https://translatewiki.net/w/i.php?title=Special:Translate&filter=&group=wikimedia-portals&optional=1&task=custom), select the language you wish to translate to, and proceed to edit a translation. The translations will be merged into the repository automatically by a bot.